all right what's going on guys my name
is Nick Abraham and in this video I'm
going to walk you through how to
actually identify and fix your P mod
liability issues so I've went through
every single tool every single process I
even Built My Own inbox placement test
to be able to identify cold mod
deliverability issues and a lot of it
it's not needed and so you know there's
tons of people that will speak about
deliverability and they make it a lot
more complicated than it needs to be and
I'm going to walk you through my simple
framework to identify coldo deliver body
issues and how to resolve them so here's
why you should listen to me I send well
over a million C emails a month I send
it for over 120 active clients at my
agency leader. and if you just look me
up Nick Abraham or libra. you're going
to see we've been documenting coldo
deliverability practices and just like
Legion strategies for over the last
three years maybe even four and I've
been doing it for well over four years
and so when it comes to deliverability
I've tried everything and here's a
simple solution if you are following the
fundamentals and I'm going to go through
the fundamentals and your reply rate is
dropping month over month your reply
rate your open rate your reply rate is
dropping month over month you probably
have a deliverability issue and if
that's the case instead of trying to
figure out what's causing it and all
this as long as you're following the
fundamentals just delete the inbox set
up a new domain and set up a new inbox
domains are cheap inboxes are even
cheaper and they're very easy to
automate and you even if you don't
automate it's very easy to delegate and
so instead of trying to figure out how
to fix and repair and put all this time
and energy into troubleshooting and
inboxes deliverability just go set up a
new one that's the Simple Solution so
now let's talk about the fundamentals
you need to have in place so that you
know that if your reply rate isn't
dropping it's not a deliverability issue
and there just probably something else
so let's get into it so the first thing
I want to just point out is that you
know we have clients that they have
extreme product Market fit and that
leads to a ton of Engagement to their
cold email campaigns meaning they're
getting a ton of positive responses tons
of meetings booked and so in those cases
I could put links in the email I could
do a whole bunch of crazy stuff in the
email and still get incredible results
because there's so much engagement you
got to think about it right like if
Google or Microsoft is seeing one of
their inboxes getting a majority of
their emails responded to and
conversations happening they're probably
going to think okay this guy's not
sending spam he's probably sending
something legitimate so let me make sure
that it goes to the primary folder and
doesn't get missed that's just the
general like thought process there right
and so if you can have great product
Market fit which means you're just
selling to the right market with the
right solution and they're actually
interested like a lot of this stuff
won't matter to you but that's probably
not 95% of you like out of all of our
clients there's very few that actually
have true product Market fit in my
opinion most of you guys watching this
and most of the clients that you may be
managing if you're a legion agency don't
have really good offers and so you got
to kind of have these fundamentals in
place to make sure that the
deliverability and the reputation of the
inbox is maintained and if it isn't you
just set up a new one right so the first
thing is is that you spread the volume
across multiple secondary domains you
never send out of your primary domain
and so you know we'll typically buy 10
domains and then we will buy them
through pork bun we'll set up inboxes
with Outlook we find that Outlook
inboxes are easier to manage when the
campaign's actually live there's less
lockouts less bans less authentications
less disconnects and everything of that
sort so I highly recommend Outlook
inboxes I do believe though in the next
two years what Google is doing right now
to restrict cold emails Outlook will
also do and I I think it'll probably
happen in less than two years I think
it's really going to happen in the next
year and so that's just something to to
keep in mind but as of right now
whatever today's date is what is it
April 2nd I would go ahead and use
Outlook inboxes and you just want to get
those secondary domains and forward them
over to your primary domain so if you
buy domains just buy and this is other
thing too with the name of the domains
always buy them in.com and try not to
have any numbers in them there's
infinite ways you can resay your name so
RS is libra. so we just say get lead
bird.com try lead bird.com lead Birds
solutions.com those are the secondary
name secondary domains and like the
names we kind of associate with them and
we just forward them to our primary
domain libre.io simple and then when it
comes to setting up inboxes a lot of you
guys don't actually set up the records
properly and sometimes you do set it up
properly but then like the dkim key
didn't actually register so the simple
thing to do here is just verify that
it's all set up properly just go to MX
toolbox type in your domain it's going
to tell you if your dkim is missing or
if your dmark isn't set up properly and
then you just go fix that simple right
and then you want to set up at Max two
inboxes per domain that's what we are
finding to be the best anytime we go
more than that we start to see a massive
drop in reply rates and we'll see a lot
more disconnects with the Inbox and so
just set up two inboxes per domain all
on out that's it so that's everything on
the inbox technical side set up now
let's talk about warm-up so I have found
that inboxes that are in warm-up longer
do 10 to always Outlast inboxes that are
kind of just thrown into campaigns
quicker and once again this all comes
back down to product Market fit like if
you have extreme product Market fit you
probably could throw an inbox into a
good campaign and have it run and it
does good and it stays while you know
around for a while but if you have a
pretty bad offer you don't get much
engagement regardless and you throw it
into the campaign day one it's probably
going to be disconnected it's probably
going to start dying out way quicker so
I recommend that you warm it up for a
minimum of 2 weeks if you can go longer
that's great but a minimum of two weeks
and then when it comes to the actual
warmup and I I even have to this graphic
and I kind of am taking back what you
know we've done in the past the warmup
like the numbers and the metrics aren't
as important as you think and and what I
mean by that I mean is like you know
putting your reply rate at 40% on day
one and then 80% on day two like in the
beginning just have a range of 20 to 40
emails or it should start at 5 to 20
emails on the randomizer smart lead and
then just put the reply rate at like
something like 60% that's good that
works and they do that for the first 14
days and then when it actually goes live
into the campaign we'll talk about in a
bit let me talk about copyrighting real
quick so before we even talk about
campaign Management on the copyrighting
side so many things to do right so the
first thing is is that plain text only
no links no signatures no C links in the
initial emails if you want to do in the
response handling go for it but in the
initial email plain text only turn off
your open tracking that open tracking
like if you're assessing your
deliverability by open tracking you're
done like it it does not have a lot of
correlations and a lot of the data
depending on the markets you're selling
to the people that you're selling to it
can range that's why I think reply rate
and even further what we do is look at
true reply rate that's the number you
want to assess and true reply rate to me
means like actual conversations so no
out of offices no auto replies like true
engagement numbers that number is the
number you want to look at you also want
to just track General reply rate as well
I look at both so it's just something to
kind of keep in mind and with your copy
like stop sending a novel in the email
like it really should be conversational
you know do a little check to make sure
you're not putting a lot of words in
there that indicate spam and just use a
lot of spax in subject line as well as
in the actual email copy and here's the
other thing too right like you could
have Park Market fit but if you write a
10-step email sequence you're going to
have a lot of people that Mark you as
spam and email 5 to 10 and so keep your
sequences short I like to just do a
two-step sequence I would been see great
results from that so that's everything
on the copyrighting front now when it
comes to actual sending in the campaign
management you have to keep your bounce
rate under 2% it goes above 2% calls
your campaign export the leads and then
go verify with another tool and then
take all those leads that came back as
invalid add it to your DNC and it's
automatically going to block the leads
in the campaign or just go delete the
leads either way it works and it doesn't
matter what database you use and if they
tell you they verify the leads or not
always verify the leads outside of the
database Apollo will tell you that their
leads are verified they're not you know
if you just raw dog a list you're going
to get a crazy bounce rate so don't do
that simple then when it comes to the
actual management of the campaign you
want to take all the unsubscribed
everyone that's giving you an aggressive
reply in the C email and put them to
your DNC so that you don't reach out to
them in month two and month three cuz
what happens is in month one you email
some dude let's say you email me I tell
you to take me off my take me off your
list and you don't do that in month
three you know let's say you're just
recycling contacts you may add me into
that campaign and guess what happens I'm
going to mark your email a Spam instead
of taking the time to say take me off
your list and so manage that properly
and make sure that your DNC is up to
date at all times and then when it comes
to the actual volume of the inbox The
Simple Solution is just keep your inbox
volume low and scale horizontally
meaning that you scale through more
inboxes so I never try to send more than
60 emails and 60 emails is still
stretching it right now we send actually
50 emails per inbox per day and 25 of
those are on warm-up and on the 25
emails that are on warm-up we put the
randomized range at 20 to 25 and we put
the reply rate at 100% And The thought
process there is like okay let's say our
cool email sucks where if we're sending
50 emails 25 of them are warmup and
they're all getting responded to so
technically from that inbox we're
getting a 50% reply rate which is pretty
good so you know I feel like Google
Microsoft they're going to say okay hey
I'm not going to actually block this
guy's emails cuz he's getting a decent
amount of replies and that's what we do
and then like I mentioned if your reply
rate gets below 2 and a half% that's
where I'm noticing that like even if you
have a really shitty offer you're still
going to get responses that are usually
telling you unsubscribe take me off your
list and things of that sort but if it's
under 2 and a half% that means that you
know you're not getting anyone engaged
with you which means that majority of
your emails are probably going to spam
and so if it's under 2 and a half% just
kill it so this is the fundamentals this
is what you got to do if you can do this
and you can send your cold emails and
you're getting some reply there's just
not anyone wanting to book a call it's
usually an offer issue which is product
Market fit and so let's kind of go over
why your campaign is not getting results
and and what I've seen for the most part
for the people that don't actually
follow the fundamentals or that do
follow the fundamentals but still run
into issues it's usually just three
things so the first one is they're
assessing their deliverability by open
rates and I think I kind of touched on
this earlier could be wrong I've
recorded this video like three times now
so I don't know which one I talked about
it on but don't assess your campaigns in
terms of deliverability based off of
Open rates I see people that'll freak
out that you know hey last week I had a
60% open rate I launched the same
campaign and now I have a 40% open rate
and it's like well first of all that
metric is not even it anymore and I
wouldn't freak out unless the open rate
was at something like bizarre that's
like 2% and even then I still wouldn't
freak out because in some markets that's
how it is right and so you can't
necessarily say that it's a
deliverability issue and so you want to
assess deliverability by actual reply
rates and really like the best way to
assess deliverability like full
structure is every campaign every offer
is different every Market you send to is
different but generally speaking what
you want to do is build averages launch
three to four campaigns different
Industries same offer you know maybe
even do different styles of copy and
just see what generally you're getting
as your emot lead ratio across all four
the Blended emo R emot lead ratio and
figure out what your reply rate is and
your true reply rate is right and those
are your your averages and now if it
gets widely below those averages you
know there's a delity issue and that's
the best way to assess deliverability
not oh my open rate dropped or you know
I'm only getting a 4% reply rate but hey
like Al me sent you know 10 million
emails like okay obviously reply rates
going to be less than gauging someone
else that you know sent a th000 anyways
that's the first thing open rates the
second thing too is like to the inbox
setup they're using all these new SMTP
providers and they're just not reliable
who owns the largest email
infrastructure in the world it's Google
it's Microsoft just use theirs it's that
simple people are trying to cut costs
and save a couple pennies here and there
just does not make sense inboxes are not
expensive they're not and if you can't
afford them like you need to find
another like maybe outbound isn't for
you maybe you go you know figure out how
to make organic work cuz there really is
no cheaper acquisition system in B2B
sales when it comes to C email outside
of like just organic content and then
the last reason why your campaign is
probably not getting results it's just
product Market fit like what you're
selling is actually not a good solution
your Market or it could be a good
solution but the market you're selling
to just doesn't want it or value it and
of course they're not going to engage
you to your campaign and so it's not a
Del booty issue your email is Just
landing in a box just not replying cuz
they're not ISS and so those are the
three reasons that you're probably that
I'm most commonly seeing right now that
and the reasons why your campaign isn't
getting results the other thing that I'm
certain is see as well is that you know
people are freaking out in March and
they're saying oh smart lead is tanking
and my results are bad because of smart
lead smart lead is messing up and it's
like that makes no sense I send over a
million emails a month I track this on a
week- toe basis my team tracks this on a
week toe basis oh you look at these
numbers and so we know if anything bad
is going on and the last thing I would
blame is the sequencer it would make no
sense like it just doesn't and in a time
like March right you have spring break
that's really two weeks depending on you
know what states you're in so that's a
lot of out of offices that's what we saw
and then we also had Easter this last
weekend which is once again lot of out
of offices so of course your EMA lead
ratio is going to be a little bit higher
than usual your appointment set rates
are going to be a little bit lower than
usual your reply rates are going to be a
little bit lower than usual but that's
just because of the actual season it's
not a smart lead issue it's not a cold
Emil is over issue it's just a season
that's it right and so this video is how
I think about deliverability like I
mentioned before The Simple Solution I'm
doing all the fundamentals properly and
I start to see that my reply rate my
true reply rate is starting to go down
month over month I'm just killing the
inbox and I'm setting up a new one don't
try to spend all this time and energy
trying to pinpoint why the inbox is
going bad like this is the fundamentals
that's all you have to follow for the
most part every situation is different
but for the most part you know I'm
running it for over 120 clients and this
is what I see so if you have any
questions feel free to just DM me on
Twitter I'm pretty decent at getting
back to my DMs I'm also pretty active on
LinkedIn I'll probably see your DM there
because I get less DM DMS on LinkedIn
and I'm more than happy to help out but
this is all it is when it comes to Del
Bo don't over complicate it don't spend
a lot of time and energy into it send
more emails increase the volume reach
out to more net new people and try to
solve for product Market fit that's
what's going to save your campaign and
your results